ADR-101: Backport documentation to v0.38.x-experimental (#1477)
cometbft/cometbft: docs/data-companion/intro.md

---
order: 1
parent:
    title: Introduction
    order: 1
---

# Introduction

A proposal was made in

> [ADR-101](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/thane/adr-084-data-companion-pull-api/docs/architecture/adr-101-data-companion-pull-api.md)

Reviewer: This link is broken.

Author: Fixed.

to introduce new gRPC endpoints that can be used by an external application to fetch data from the node and to control
which data is pruned by the node.

The Data Companion pruning service allows users to keep only the necessary data on the node,
enabling more efficient storage management and improved performance of the node. With this new service, users can have
greater control over their pruning mechanism and therefore better ability to optimize the node's storage.

The new pruning service allows granular control of what can be pruned such as blocks and state, ABCI results (if enabled), block
indexer data and transaction indexer data.

By also using the new gRPC services, it's possible now to retrieve data from the node, such as `block` and `block results`
in a more efficient way.

The [gRPC services](./grpc.md) document provides practical information and insights that will guide you through the
process of using these services in order to create a Data Companion service.

> Note that this version of CometBFT (v0.38) has a gRPC service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this version of CometBFT (v0.38) already includes a gRPC service
```

(`rpc/grpc/api.go`) that is considerd legacy code and will be removed in future

> releases. We encourage users to use the new gRPC service instead. In case you

Reviewer: >  We encourage users to use the new gRPC service instead.

For? I mean, they are not equivalent.

Reviewer 2: Yes, clarifying that the legacy gRPC service is used only for broadcasting transactions.

Author: Right, I removed that line.

> need to use the legacy endpoints, they should have a different URL than the gRPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to use the legacy gRPC endpoints, make sure that they have a different URL than the gRPC
```
